# Microbial_ecology_under_increasing_salinity
Key scripts and data of Li2023iMeta paper on microbial ecology under increasing salinity stress

In this study (Li et al., 2023, iMeta e79), we showed that, with the increasing salinity stress induced by the freshwater‐to‐seawater transition, the microbial diversity reduced significantly and the taxonomic structure experienced a strong succession. The complexity and stability of microbial ecological networks were diminished by the increasing stress. The composition of the microorganisms supporting the networks underwent sharp turnovers during the freshwater‐to‐seawater transition, with the abundant biosphere behaving more robustly than the rare biosphere. Notably, the abundant biosphere played a much more important role than the rare biosphere in stabilizing ecological networks under low‐stress environments, but the difference between their relative importance narrowed significantly with the increasing stress, suggesting that the environmental stress weakened the “Matthew effect” in the microbial world. With in‐depth insights into the aquatic microbial ecology under stress, our findings highlight the importance of adjusting conservation strategies for the abundant and rare biospheres to maintain ecosystem functions and services in response to rising environmental stress.

If you used these scripts, please cited the paper below:

Li, Changchao, Ling Jin, Chao Zhang, Shuzhen Li, Tong Zhou, Zhongyi Hua, Lifei Wang, Shuping Ji, Yanfei Wang, Yandong Gan, and Jian Liu. 2023. “Destabilized Microbial Networks with Distinct Performances of Abundant and Rare Biospheres in Maintaining Networks under Increasing Salinity Stress.” iMeta e79. https://doi.org/10.1002/imt2.79
